Module 1: Course Overview
  Strategies for keeping up
  Which technology to keep up with - when to learn and how
  Techniques for learning efficiently 
  Keeping up as a marathon

Module 2: Keeping up Is for Losers
  The Price of Keeping Up
    The real cost is time, not money
    The more realistic goal is keep up with a smaller and smaller set of technology 
    The true goal is to win the game

  The Elephant in the Room - it's best to accept the obvious 
    How to choose which technologies to keep up with 
    When to keep up
    How to learn efficiently - and save time 
    What and Who you are keeping up with

Module 3: What Should You Keep up With?
  Start with the Obvious
    learn while you earn - no matter what you learn 
    but it might be better to choose what you learn, no matter whose time it is

  Progress and Promotions
    Be aware of status of the tool and technology that you are using 
      - using current version?
      - new version or major changes coming that will require significant effort to adopt?
      - effort = learning curve, need to re-write, re-factor, re-install, etc...  
      - certification, esp. for consultants
    
    As keep up become harder, consider two areas:
      1. Applicable to immediate role
      2. Applicable to role to move into - as a mean for additional income
    
    Promotion = working w/ new and different technology 
      Setup for the role you want by already having the technologies for that role
      eg. from Network Configuration -> Network Security and Forensics 
      
      What else is your company doing - that you are not personally involved in?
      Look for technology with increasing adoption, look for company's job opening 
      like AI
    
      Technology with immediate need maybe a dead end in the long run  

  The Time Factor
    E = I * L / T
    
    E: efficiency, return on investment in time 
    I: income
    L: lifespan
    T: time

    Any technology w/ long lifespan can have huge impact on efficiency  
    Learning something that may only boost income a little, but last for the entire career 
    Examples:
      1. Fundamentals: foundational knowledage, computer science, compiler theory, internet protocal, DB theory, basic electronics
        Programming languages, tools, frameworks, hardware platform and OS all change, but the concepts they are based upon change much more slowly  
      2. Soft Skills: writing, communication, public speaking, leadership, interpersonal skills  
        They are the multipliers of technology skills and NEVER become obsolete 

  Planning a Pivot
    Reasons to pivot:
    1. Current technology is dying 
    2. Some stack pays better than others
    3. Another stack is more fun

    Economics determines which technology will be in demand / successful in the future, not how good it is
    - look for Demand >> Supply 

    Never trust marketing 

  Homework
    Learn while you earn
    
    What is the status of the technologies and tools you are using?
    Which (if any) certification to keep up to date ?
    Examine your company's open positions for opportunities 
    Which elements of your tech stack are increasing or decreasing in adoption?
      - check job sites, trends on google
    Identify a skill or body of knowledge you have that will be relevant in 7 years. If none available, find one
    Take pluralsight soft-skills course once a month for 1 year
    Is your current technology stack declining?
    Are you bored with what you are doing?
    Do other technologies offer better career opportunities?

    Consider technology pivot if any question answer YES

    Look at a technology that you re not working on now. Can you assess career opportunities in that space 5 years from now?

Module 4: When Should You Keep Up?
  Wait for effective and efficient resources are available, like books, documen
  Much more efficient to keep up with technology that are "6 Months Old" - beware of bleeding edge 
  Even successful technology can experience false hype in the begining 

Finding the Time to Keep Up
  Just in time learning 
    Soft skills that don't become obsolete are worth to learn as early as possible 

    Step 1: Found something cool to learn 
    Step 2: Will it last? If yes, learn it (long term investment like Fundamentals & Soft skills), else go to next step
    Step 3: Will it lead to a pivot? If yes, learn it and estimate time to be compentent enough to MVP (Mid-term goal), else go to next step
    Step 4: Can it help you NOW? If yes, learn it, else just WAIT

Homework
  Think about timing: 
    look for something you are trying to learn now - anything help you learn faster?
    If not, does it make more sense to wait for better / more resources?

  For every technology of consideration:
    What are the job opertunities (every job boards)?
    Is it trending up or down (@ google)?
    Consider other technology if either is low / downward 

  Classify every technology you are learning:
    Will it last?
    Need to know soon or later for pivot?
    Else it can wait
  
  Review daily schedule:
    Look for opportunityies to adding educational content / multi-task - something that fit your learning style

Module 5: How Do You Keep up with Technology?
  Know Your Style
    Different learning styles: Books, Courses, Classes, Blog, Forums, Dpecs and exprimentation 
    
  Spend Your Time Wisely
    Look for ways to spend money to save time
    Consider following factors: 
      Timeliness: Early (online) sources may not be accurate later 
      Curations: Learn efficiently through vetted resources & easy to understand organization
      Discipline: School force you attend class and take exame with schedule - how can you get the same level of discipline?
      Direct experience: Skill and ability by creating solution and implementation >> knowledge 
        How to simulate and practice withe realistics setting?
        Look for real world problems that are posted to forums for that technology
        Check for date of question and solution so that technology / issue is not outdated 

  Triage
    If keeping up technology is stressful, then give up a technology is one less technology to stressed about
    What is the core of the vision you want to realize?

  Homework

Module 6: Who Should You Keep up With?
  Know Your Competition
    - To whatever degree your career depends on technical ability, all else being equal,
      you only nned to be stronger than the competition
    Therefore, for a given area:
      1. Get stronger 
      2. Choose a space w/ less competition

  Keeping up Over the Long Term
    Develop skill in areas that do not become obsolete - additional exp accumulated
    Advantages of age:
      Netowrks: Contacts and reputation
      Foresight to improve efficiency 
      Soft skills 
    Don't let expectation get in your way

  Under the Hood
    Additonal courses:
      Learning Technology in the infomation age
      The future of technology career
      Carkside of technology career
      Introduction to leadership and management for developer 
      So you want to be an Entrepreneur 
    Authors:
      Rob Conry, Scott Hanselman, John Papa and Jason Alba
    Topics:
      Writing, public speaking, general communication, leaderships kill  

  Homework