Course Overview
  On MS Azure cloud platform in Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)
  On monitoring and management scenario 
Module 2: Reviewing Service and Resource Health
  Overview
    goals:
      Where to observe Azure service status 
      Azure Monitor - central hub to monitor IaaS deployment 
      Activity and Diagnostics log: what do they mean, what kind of data is stored and best approach to monitoring 
      Applications Insight - manage Azure App Service web app, APIs, lopic apps and mobile apps 
    Specific Terms and UI differences:
      Feature in Public Preview does not have Service Level Agreement  
      When features are GA (Generally Available) - they have SLA
    Operations Management Suite (OMS)
      Once sapreate from Azure
      Services migrating to Azure Resource Manager   
      Specific service for this course: Log Analytics 
    Log Analytics 
      Use Azure Log Analytics (v2)
      New query language (like SQL in Powershell)

  Demo: Check Azure Service Status
    azure.com -> Support -> Azure Status Dashboard 
    OR
    https://portal.azure.com

  Monitoring - The Big Picture
  Azure Resource Logs
  Demo: Review Azure VM Diagnostics
  Demo: Investigate Azure VM Metrics
  Demo: Introducing Azure Monitor
  Azure Monitor Components
  Application Insights
  Demo: Introducing Application Insights
  Summary
Module 3: Introducing Azure Management Solutions
  Overview
    How to monitor Azure IaaS solutions
      Insight and Analytics solution  
        Create a workspace in Azure protal 
        On boarding VMs and apps
        Service Map
        Network Performance Monitor in the I&A solution
      
  The Azure Monitoring Mindset
    Pets vs. Cattle
      Caring for individual server as pet
      vs. 
      Managing multitude of machines (on-premises and cloud-based)
    1. What is available in Azure?
    2. How to use / when to use each tool?
    3. Actual monitoring, trouble shooting, performance tuning workflow - what to look out for?
    4. How to address issue? both manually and automatically



  Instance-level Monitoring
  Azure Monitor
  Azure Management Solutions
  Demo: Create a Workspace
  The Insight and Analytics Solution
  Demo: Install an Azure Management Solution
  Demo: Work with Service Map
  Demo: Work with Network Performance Monitor
  Summary
Module 4: Deep Analysis with Microsoft Azure Log Analytics
  Overview
  How Log Analytics Works
  Demo: Set up Log Analytics in Azure
  Log Analytics Search Reference
  Demo: Getting Started with Log Search
  Demo: Performing Log Searches
  Demo: Viewing and Interpreting Results
  Summary